it's the idea that
matters it didn't matter where you come
from or what your background is one
revolutionary idea one Brilliant
Invention can unleash other to
revolutionize Industries in ways you
could never
predict so take the time to find the
thing that excites you more than
anything else in the world not the thing
your parents want you to do or the thing
that all your friends are doing or that
Society expects of
you let me tell you a little bit about
my personal journey to Silicon Valley
from India 22 years ago growing up in
India like many of you I got my first
telephone when I was 12 in my case it
turned out to be a rotary phone so it
wasn't that great for selfies but I
still love to call my friends play with
it and sometimes take it apart that
telephone cemented my fascination with
technology I remember in my parents
house in ch I reading about the
invention of the transistor at baps of
course that initial invention helped
found what became known as Silicon
Valley and out of that came companies
like fat child semiconductor and Intel
and all the computers and software that
we all use today you can draw a direct
line from that invention to the
technology that powers your Twitter feed
or your V chat messages
today I remember reading about that and
thinking it's the idea that matters it
didn't matter where you come from or
what your background is one
revolutionary idea one Brilliant
Invention can unleash other
entrepreneurs to revolutionize
Industries in ways you could never
predict in India another early and
insightful decision was to create the
Indian Institutes of technology these
are leading engineering and Technical
institutions that are government
supported I still vividly remember as a
teenager jumping onto a crowded train in
at chenai and traveling for 24 hours to
attend my school at IAT kakur and that
opportunity changed the course of my
life these institutions over many
decades have played a huge role in
creating generations of skilled
entrepreneurs in
India the people who buildt the
transistor in many ways enable the
entrepreneurs who are using incredible
processing power to analyze data and
diagnose cancer in the same way the
invention of smartphones and GPS has
enabled other companies to build apps
that revolutionize the way we travel
around
cities that's why I came here I had a
deep desire to be part of this exchange
of ideas this community of entrepreneurs
and coming to the Global Hub where this
was all happening I felt welcomed and
embraced people didn't care where I came
from only my ideas and hard work
mattered I'm not alone
that is why you're here the possibility
that anyone with the right idea at the
right time can have an impact on others
that is no longer limited to a single
place it's possible
everywhere what we are seeing now is an
unprecedented Global
opportunity in China a few months ago I
met entrepreneurs combining social
commerce and business Platforms in
entirely new and unique ways and earlier
I mentioned a game built by an
entrepreneur from Vietnam when I was
last in Vietnam I met him his name is
dong Newan and he created Flappy Bird he
was a developer from Hanoi who wanted to
create simple games nonviolent games
that reminded him of why he fell in love
with gaming in the first place and it
quickly became one of the world's most
downloaded games for Android and
iPhones great ideas and Technology no
longer come from just Silicon Valley
they can and do come from anywhere and
now they can quickly reach scale I see
hubs growing all over the world Germany
Brazil UK Israel China the latest
figures say that 21% of adults across 60
countries intend to start a business in
the next 3 years and there are over 200
million women around the world who are
starting or running a business it's
clear that Silicon Valley is now as much
an idea as a place and it is an ideal of
what's
possible you're the ones building the
next Google the next Spotify the next
Tesla the next well we don't even know
but what I know is that someone in this
room will build it we at Google are
proud to be supporting this Summit and
we are passionate about entrepreneurship
this is such an important issue for our
company but also for our country and for
a community of entrepreneurs around the
world at Google entrepreneurship is in
our DNA Google was founded here at
Stanford and the company's first home
was in a garage just a couple miles from
here like many of you in the audience
our Founders were two young people with
a vision of a better future a better way
and and they decided to follow their
dreams we now live on our own campus
down the road and in dozens of countries
but the spirit
continues in fact our most popular
products almost all big ideas that small
entrepreneurial teams dreamed up and
made
happen Gmail started with one person's
passion to reinvent email today it has
over 1 billion monthly active uses our
browser Chrome a small team's Obsession
to bring a faster more secure web to
everyone now has over a billion monthly
active users cardboard our virtual
reality viewer two engineers in our
Paris office had an idea of what's
possible with a piece of cardboard and a
phone now more than 5 million viewers
are taking people to new
worlds using cardboard teachers can take
their classes on Virtual field trips
from the Great Barrier Reef to Machu
picu First Lady Michelle Obama made this
part of her reach higher education
initiative more than one 1 million
students from 11 countries have gone on
Virtual field trips and today we are
making cardboard available to lgbtq
centers around the world so people who
cannot physically attend Pride parades
and festivals this weekend can still
have the pride
experience all of this came from two
engineers in paris's bright idea we
don't know what's next or where it'll
come from but we know that the barriers
to entrepreneurship and to Bringing
ideas to Global audiences are tumbling
people working anywhere in the world
born anywhere in the world can create a
product and make it available to anyone
in the world there are many countries
helping to create positive environment
for their
entrepreneurs at Google we are committed
to playing our part to Foster the next
generation of
entrepreneurs our Google for
entrepreneurs team has established a
number of campuses these provide space
for entrepreneurs to to build and work
together in major Tech hubs to take
their ideas and Go Global we have opened
campuses in London Madrid sollo Soul Tel
Aviv and we look forward to reaching new
cities in the future and perhaps
welcoming some of you to drop by Google
tools help businesses launch and grow
every day more than 30 million small
businesses globally rely on at least one
Google product to find customers to grow
and to be productive
training we also committed to train 5.5
million people on digital skills
investing over $140 million during the
past year in the next year we aim to
provide free digital skills training to
1 million young people in Africa
alone I know how much hard work it takes
to pursue a dream of building a business
the long hours time away from family the
rejection the ideas you know are
brilliant that just don't seem to catch
on there is a great quote from Thomas
Edison that does the best job of
defining what it's like to be an
entrepreneur I have not failed I have
just found 10,000 ways that don't
work everyone here is part of a
tradition that stretches all the way
back to Edison and up to companies like
Google today it's about more than
building app to make money it's about
transforming Industries creating
millions of jobs curing diseases
fighting global warming and making our
schools richer environments for our
children and I hope you find the summit
invigorating and that when you get home
it encourages you to continue building
you will
prevail the reason I know you'll Prevail
is because so many others have done it
before you the long Arc of History tells
us we have every reason to be hope
so be hopeful there is an interesting
Trend I've noticed it's very
conventional for every generation to
underestimate the potential of the
following one it's because they don't
realize that the progress of one
generation becomes the foundational
premise for the next and it takes a new
set of people to come along and realize
all the
possibilities I grew up without much
access to technology we didn't get our
first telephone till I was 10 I didn't
have regular access to a computer until
I came to America for graduate school my
father spent the equivalent of a year
salary on my plane ticket to the US so I
could attend Stanford it was my first
time ever on a plane but when I
eventually landed in California things
weren't as I had imagined America was
expensive a phone call back home was
more than $2 a minute and a backpack
cost the same as my dad's monthly salary
in India and for all the talk about the
warm California beaches that water was
freezing cold on top of all that I
missed my family my friends and my
girlfriend now my wife back in India a
bright spot for me during this time was
Computing for the first time in my life
I could use a computer whenever I wanted
to completely blew my mind under
television when we finally got one only
had one channel so imagine how a struck
I am today to be speaking to you on a
platform that has millions of channels
there are probably things about
technology that frustrate you and make
you impatient don't lose that impatience
it'll create the next technology
Revolution and enable you to build
things my generation could never dream
of the ability to ask a computer
anything
anywhere be impatient that's okay
it'll create the progress the world
needs the important thing is to be
open-minded so that you can find what
you love for me it was technology the
more access my family had to technology
the better Our Lives got so when I
graduated I knew I wanted to do
something to bring technology to as many
others as possible at the time I thought
I could achieve this by building better
semiconductors at the time you know I
used to read about what was happening in
Silicon Valley and you know I wanted to
go be a part of it uh and at that same
moment the internet was literally being
built all around me the year I arrived
at Stanford was the same year the
browser Mosaic was released which would
popularize the worldwide web and the
internet the summer I left was the same
summer that a graduate student named
Sergey Bren met a prospective
engineering student named Larry Pig
these two moments would profound shaped
the rest of my life but at the time I
didn't know it it took me a while to
realize that the internet would be the
single best way to make technology
accessible to more people and as soon as
I did I changed course and decided to
pursue my dreams at Google so you know
big part of what I focus on at any given
time is you know making sure we are
innovating and building products for the
future so we are thinking about you know
things like virtual reality or augmented
reality so these are all new areas but
we've always had a very ambitious
Mission uh you know we wanted to
organize the world's information and
make it universally accessible we feel
like we are in early days of that
mission and you know so for us the
journey is just getting
started and I just want to make sure the
next 30 Years uh we are still able to
work on problems which uh really work
for people on a day-to-day basis uh
hopefully at that point serve all of
humanity in a profound way so that's
where I want to be uh you know it is a
core part of at least What drew me to
Google I think the chance that we could
work on products uh which would one day
uh you know reach everyone in the world
you know I didn't have access to
Computing growing up and once I got
access to it I you know it changed my
life and so I've always been interested
in this is why we work on affordable
Android smartphones or Chromebooks and
being able to reach everyone I think
it's a foundational part of what we do
inspired by the wonder that first
browser created in me I led the effort
to launch one called Chrome in 2009 and
drove the effort to help Google develop
affordable laptops and phones so that a
student growing up in any neighborhood
or Village in any part of the world
could have the same access to
information as all of you had I stayed
the course in graduate school I'd
probably have a PhD today which would
have made my parents really proud but I
might have missed the opportunity to
bring the benefits of technology to so
many others and I certainly wouldn't be
standing here speaking to you as Google
CEO another thing I've noticed over time
is you will have many many many
opportunities to reinvent yourself and
so uh you know so I think you know it's
worthwhile taking risks on trying to do
something you're really uh you know
excited by and if the first attempt you
don't do it you know you can try again
and you know things tend to work out in
the long run you know in Silicon Valley
you know uh you know part of the reason
so many people start up a company is you
know starting up a company and even
having failed you know you can wear it
like a badge of honor right and uh and I
think that's important you know
culturally you know risk is rewarded I
remember when I started working at
Google you know I if if I went and you
know people were discussing ideas the
other people who heard the ideas try to
build on those ideas they encourage you
so it's a culture of optimism it's a
culture of risk-taking and I think
that's really important so you know move
forward would be for me uh you know if I
look at what is needed to solve the next
generation of problems creativity is an
important attribute uh I think so
encouraging more creativity through the
educational system today I do think our
educational system values you know
rigorous academic knowledge over uh nily
you know being more creative in how you
approach education I think that's
important uh another thing I would say
is and I think it you know I've seen it
in the best schools in the US Etc it's
what I call it's very experiential very
Hands-On you know people learn learn how
to do things by doing them and not just
by learning about them right and I think
that's a big big difference so uh you
know to me so allowing a system in which
there's a lot more creativity learning
how to get things done by hand and you
know some much more of a Project based
experiential learning are all I think
you know Trends which the Indian
educational system needs to adopt and
and I also think it's important to teach
students to take risks and uh you know
and making making sure the system
doesn't penalize for you to take risks
and you know if you're different and so
you know those are all attributes which
I think are important you know when I
see entrepreneurs here uh they seem no
different to me than the kind of people
I meet in the valley so intrinsically I
think India can do the same kinds of
things and as the internet becomes more
mainstream people feel more confident
you have a much larger domestic Market
to tackle you know that'll give you the
confidence to tackle not just a local
market but Global problems as well so I
think we're very well
positioned I mean the one good thing
about India is I think you know um
there's always been you know whenever in
India I used to walk around and go to
some remote corner and find a tea stall
you know and uh you know I always felt
there there is an entrepreneur there
somewhere uh who saw that opportunity so
I think that streak has always existed
uh but I I do think this generation to
your earlier point I think is less uh
you know uh afraid to take risks and
follow a conformist path which is good
you always if you feel very comfortable
in what you're doing you know I don't
think you're pushing yourself enough and
so I think it's you always want to
strive to be in environments where you
feel the people around you are a little
bit better than you are you know that
there are definitely at times I've
worked with amazing people at Google
I've been in a room where I felt you
know look I mean these people are better
than me at what you know what they're
doing and when you work with really good
people what you just described is a you
know it's a natural feeling to have you
know in fact at Google we talk about
this for many many new people sometimes
they come into Google and we we have a
phrase for this we call this the
Imposter syndrome people commonly say
well I don't belong here because you
know people around me seem uh very very
good and I think any any Elite
institution I'm sure it's true at IIT
here uh you know you're always
surrounded by very good people and I
think there are moments when you feel
what you just described I think it's
natural if anything I would say you
almost always want to feel that all
through your life because that means
you're working with people who are very
very good and uh you know and that's
really important so so people explore
different things and and find what
they're really passionate about so I
think those are all you know good things
to Aspire to uh I think you know I would
like to see uh people you know people
value creativity value experience of
doing things uh taking risks and uh you
know academics is important but it is
not as important as it also made made
out to be I think people should be
encouraged to take risks a little bit
more and and try different things till
they find what they like doing yeah I I
think that matters a lot so that's the
bar or anything we try to do we we think
of it that way and so we aim high and
you know and you want to aim high enough
that you fail uh you know a few times I
think that's the natural part of the
process uh in fact you know Larry used
to say if you aim if you work on really
difficult things you're better off
because you have no competition others
aren't working on that difficult problem
and even if you fail you end up doing
something great in the process and so I
think that's the philosophy which has
guided us all through these years in
Silicon Valley you know uh you know part
of the reason so many people start up a
company is you know starting up a
company and even having failed you know
you can wear it like a badge of honor
right and uh and I think that's
important you know culturally you know
risk is rewarded so it's a culture of
optimism it's a culture of risk-taking
and I think that's really important so I
think part of the problem is uh in India
you know the the potential is there and
the market is developing I think it'll
take a few more years for it to fully
realize the show and so I'm absolutely
confident of it I think there's a timing
issue but I think you know we are
growing well as a country I I think we
need to stay at it continue doing all
these things and it will take a few more
years and we'll get there the trend
lines are strongly in the favor I think
every year I can see the the rate at
which things are changing so in about 3
to four years you know I wouldn't you
know I'm pretty convinced at least you
know 5 to 10 year time frame that there
will be big Global uh you know software
companies coming out of India and we
will be very used to
it I know how much hard work it takes to
pursue a dream of building a business
the long hours time away from family the
rejection the ideas you know are
brilliant that just don't seem to catch
on I'm absolutely convinced that India
will be a global player in the digital
economy and it will be competitive with
any country in the world uh so I've
always is felt that and I think you have
all the foundations when I you know I've
said this before when I interact with uh
startups in India I find them world
class in terms of how they approach
things the entrepreneurs I run into
their how they build products and so I'm
absolutely confident of it uh there are
many many different ways uh you know you
can approach things and what matters
most is you know loving what you're
doing and uh and trying to do well at it
so I think it's important to follow your
dream and do something which your uh you
know excited by uh you know so I think
if you follow your heart and do what you
like you will always do much better uh
and so I don't think it matters that
you're an engineer or uh you're a you
know you're in science or it could be in
any field we're all looking to you the
world is counting on you and we can't
wait to see what you build next I know
you're getting a lot of advice today so
let me leave you with mine be open be
impatient be hopeful if you can do that
hisory will remember not for what you
lost but for what you changed you have
the chance to change everything I'm
optimistic you will thank you
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]